BWA mem Alignment
-----------------
A part of the Single Animal Variant Caller Pipeline  


### What it does:
    BWA mem takes an indexed reference genome and either one
    (for single-end reads) or two (for paired-end reads) fastq files.
    BWA will then align these reads to the provided genome and return
    a bam file.

### How to use it:
    BWA mem is relatively simple to use, requiring two input files
    and two parameters (this is subject to change in the future).
    It returns a single bam file as output.  

    Inputs:  
        1. Fastq file(s) (.fq or .fastq): these are files that come off a sequencing machine.
        If they're paired-end, you'll have two with similar names
        (e.g. myFastq_1.fastq and myFastq_2.fastq).
        2. Indexed reference bundle (.tgz): this is a flat archive produced by
        running the reference bundle step of the pipeline. This need only
        be done once for each species of animal you plan to run through
        the pipeline. This file will have a .tgz file extension.

    Parameters:  
        1. Barcode: this is what the final output will be named. This parameter
        will also be used to name the read groups in the output, so make sure it's
        something meaningful to you.
        2. Cleanup: this is a flag to determine if intermediate files should be
        returned with normal output. This is useful for debugging but probably
        won't be necessary for day-to-day runs.

    Outputs:  
        1. Bam file (.bam): a file which gives information about where each read in
        the fastq aligned to the reference genome. This can then be used as
        input to variant callers and other analysis programs.
        2. Bam index file (.bai): this file helps later programs access the bam file
        more easily by providing metadata about where a given read is in the bam file.
        Make sure it stays in the same directory as the accompanying bam file.


### Where it came from:
    BWA is maintained by a group at the Broad Institute led by Heng Li.
    It was originally developed at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Centre with
    Richard Durbin.  
    The Sourceforge page for the program can be found here:
    http://bio-bwa.sourceforge.net/

### Citing BWA:
    Please make sure to cite BWA properly according to the Sourceforge page
    if you use this app.

### Citing iAnimal:
    Make sure to cite iAnimal too! More information can be found at our homepage.
    
### Getting help:
    For help, comments, and bug fixes, contact:
        James Carson and Eric Dawson
        Texas Advanced Computing Center

    Texas
